# Homework on Heat, Light, and Sound
In the following assignments:

  * Use $10 m/s^2$ for g, except when otherwise indicated
  * Show the work that arrives at your response. 
  * Use scientific notation for large and small values.  Learning to do this is one goal of the assignment.
  * When relevant, round answers to 3 digits.  
  * In all work, use $\tau$ rather than  $\pi$.  Use $\tau$ instead.
  * In all work, express angles in radians.

### Basic
1. An airliner travelling at 35,000 feet may fly in -50C air.  Assuming it is not designed for supersonic flight, how fast can it safely fly at that altitude?


2. The terms "pink" and "blue" noise describe sound that is slightly different from pure "white" noise.  Using the analogy of light wavelengths, describe how pink and blue noise would differ from white noise.


3. What is the wavelength of middle-A, which is 440Hz?  And what about the next higher A an octave up? What about medical ultrasound, which operates at 1MHz (give this in mm)?

4. A sensor specific to blue light is used to measure blue light reflected from white paint.  A blue pigment is then added, making the paint a medium blue in color.  How would the sensor's readings before and after adding the pigment compare and why?


5. A wood stove with perfect blackbody-radiating paint (they usually have this -- which is why they're usually black) is a cube 50cm on a side.  If it's heated to 300C, how many watts does it radiate into the room?


6. If that same stove were left in interstellar space, where presumably it would stop burning due to lack of air, and were allowed to cool to 57.3K, how much does it radiate then?  Do this purely by temperature ratio from the prior example (you should find that 57.3K is a nice fraction of the hotter stove temp).  Do not use the constant $5.67x10^{-8}$ in your answer at all.  And despite being 57.3K above absolute zero, you should find the whole stove radiates less than a watt.


7. Explain why each of these news statements is scientifically inaccurate:

   a. The new power plant generates 100 megawatts per year.\
   b. A generated power of 1 million kilowatts is enough for 1000 households.\
   c. The vacuum of space is cold -- -270C.\
   d. At orbital altitude, astronauts float weightlessly because there is no gravity.\
   e. The transmission line provides 500 kilovolts of electrical power.\
   f. A jet engine emits 120 dB of sound, 1000x the volume of a normal conversation.

8. If you are flying at a high altitude, and a supersonic jet passes *below* you, do you still hear a sonic boom?  Why?

9. All other things being equal, would you expect a speaker to operate more efficiently in helium than air?  What about in sulfur hexaflouride?

10. At a 3m distance from a loud noise, you experience 100 dB of sound energy.  This hurts your ears, and you back off to reduce the noise to 80 dB.  How far must you back off?  

11. You can choose to stand for a couple of minutes in front of a microwave source radiating at $500W/m^2$ or a gamma ray source radiating at just $.1W/m^2$.  Which would you prefer and why?


### Silver

12. Proposed futuristic space colonies are sometimes very large structures, e.g. a sphere with 1000m radius.  Such a sphere, with $4x10^9 m^3$ of volume might house, say, 10 million occupants at $400m^3$ of space each.  Assume each occupant uses an average 4kw of power for electricity, growing food, etc.  If the colony is in interstellar space, and you made the skin of highly conductive metal with no insulation, would it stay warm?

    Address this question by figuring out what temperature the skin would need to be to radiate the heat generated by the occupants -- you should find that extra heat dissipation will be needed somehow to keep the place cool enough -- actually a common problem in space.


13. The fastest speed of sound we might find in a common gas is hot hydrogen, with a molecular weight of 2 vs 29 for air.  How hot would hydrogen need to be for a speed of sound of 1600m/s (about 1 mile/sec)?


14. You stand in front of an audio speaker array that puts out sound in all directions uniformly.  At 3m distance, you hear 100 dB.  How many watts of sound power total is the speaker generating?


15. The gamma radiation from a radioactive source has wavelength $10^{-14}m$.  If the radiation intensity is just $0.1 W/m^2$, how many quanta per second pass through a square millimeter of the radiated surface? (Remarkably, this is enough to sicken and even kill you in just a few minutes)
